Alerting Docs: Update the introduction to Templates (#93935)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/alerting/fundamentals/notifications/templates.md

1. [Alert rule annotations](#template-annotations)

   - Annotations add extra information, like `summary` and `description`, to alert instances for notification messages.
   - Template annotations to display query values that are meaningful to the alert, for example, the server name or the threshold query value.

1. [Alert rule labels](#template-labels)

   - Labels are used to differentiate an alert instance from all other alert instances.
   - Template labels to add an additional label based on a query value, or when the labels from the query are incomplete or not descriptive enough.

1. [Notification templates](#template-notifications)
   - Notification templates are used by contact points for consistent messaging in notification titles and descriptions.
   - Template notifications when you want to customize the appearance and information of your notifications.
   - Avoid using notification templates to add extra information to alert instances—use annotations instead.

This diagram illustrates the entire templating process, from querying labels and templating the alert summary and notification to the final alert notification message.

> {{< figure src="/media/docs/alerting/how-notification-templates-works.png" max-width="1200px" caption="How templating works" >}}

Reviewer: ❤️

In this diagram:

1. The alert rule query returns `12345`, along with the values of the `instance` and `job` labels.
1. This query result breaches the alert rule condition, firing the alert instance.
1. The alert instance generates an annotation summary, defined by the template used in the alert rule summary. In this case, it displays the value of the `instance` label: `server1`.
1. The Alertmanager receives the firing alert instance, including the final annotation summary, and determines the contact point that will process the alert.
1. The Alertmanager uses the contact point's notification template to format the message, then sends the notification to the configured destination(s)—an email address.

## Template annotations

[Annotations](ref:annotations) can be defined in the alert rule to add extra information to alert instances.

> When creating an alert rule, Grafana suggests several optional annotations, such as `description`, `summary`, `runbook_url`, `dashboardUId` and `panelId`, which help identify and respond to alerts. You can also create custom annotations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When creating an alert rule, Grafana suggests several optional annotations, such as `description`, `summary`, `runbook_url`,  or a `custom annotation`, which help identify and respond to alerts. You can also create custom annotations.
```

Reviewer: `dashboardUId` and `panelId` not currently present in recent Grafana

```
{{ if (gt $values.A.Value 90.0) -}}
critical
{{ else if (gt $values.A.Value 80.0) -}}
high
{{ else if (gt $values.A.Value 60.0) -}}
medium
{{ else -}}
low
{{- end }}
```

Avoid using query values in labels, as this may result in the creation of numerous alerts when only one is needed. Use annotation to inform about the query value instead.

For more details on how to template labels, refer to [Template annotations and labels](ref:templating-labels-annotations).

## Template notifications

[Notification templates](ref:notification-messages) allow you to customize the content of your notifications, such as the subject of an email or the body of a Slack message.

Notification templates differ from templating annotations and labels in the following ways:

- Notification templates are assigned to the **Contact point**, rather than the alert rule.
- If not specified, the contact point uses a default template that includes relevant alert information.
- You can create reusable notification templates and reference them in other templates.
- The same template can be shared across multiple contact points, making it easier to maintain and ensuring consistency.

> - While both annotation/label templates and notification templates use the same templating language, the available variables and functions differ. For more details, refer to the [notification template reference](ref:notification-message-reference) and [annotation/label template reference](ref:templating-labels-annotations).

Reviewer: Really good point . And we should give it even more visibility. We can do that in a future PR
